=pod

=head1 NAME

Mock::Quick::Presentation - Presentation of Mock::Quick to PDX.pm

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a presentation for Mock::Quick. This presentation was written for the
portland perl mongers for the meeting on 04/13/2011.

=head1 QUICK OBJECTS

=over 4

=item Quick objects were concieved as an api stand-in

=item Emulates objects that provid fairly static information

=item Useful when the information in the object is not relivant to the test

=back

An example function to test:

    sub add_and_append {
        my ( $numA, $numB, $subsystem ) = @_;
        my $sum = $numA + $numB;

        return $subsystem->system_name . ":" . $sum;
    }

=over 4

=item We only want to test the addition, and the appending

=item We do not really care what subsystem->system_name returns (tested elsware)

=item Subsystem->new() needs 20 arguments, all are used to by system_name()

=back

Thats where quick objects come in:

    is(
        add_and_append( 2, 3, qobj( system_name => 'foo' )),
        "foo:5",
        "add_and_append works"
    );

=head2 METHOD AUTOVIVIFYING

Sometimes you need to pass in an object that has more methods than you care to
mock out, they only need to be present and return something.

Thats where the next feature of Quick Objects comes in. Quick objects
will autovivify methods as they are needed. The new methods will be read/write
accessors.

    my $obj = qobj();
    $obj->foo( 'bar' );
    is( $obj->foo, 'bar', "foo attribute was set" );
    is(
        $obj->foo( 'baz' ),
        'baz',
        "remembers and returns whatever argument you give it."
    );

=head2 STRICT OBJECTS

=over 4

=item Autovivifying can be bad

=item Autovivification has been reported as a bug in hashes

For cases where you do not want autovivifying you can use strict objects. A
strict object will not autovivify.

    my $obj = qstrict( foo => 'foo' );
    is( $obj->foo, 'foo' );
    dies_ok { $obj->bar } "no bar() method defined";

=back

=head3 But what if you want to change the specification later?

Easy!

in list context C<qobj> and C<qstrict> return both the new object, and a
control object that provides a manipulation interface.

    my ( $obj, $control ) = qstrict( foo => 'foo' );
    $control->set_attributes( bar => 'bar' );

=head3 Why not just provide a manipulation interface as a method on the object?

because it might conflict with the api you are attempting to mock.

=head2 CUSTOM METHODS

More often than not you need to mock out methods more complicated than
accessors. You can add them to your quick object in 2 ways.

You can't just assign a coderef to an accessor, that would just result in an
accessor that returns a coderef. This is important because there are cases
where that is what you really want.

The original way to create a custom method is the C<qmeth()> function.

    $obj->new_method( qmeth {
        my $self = shift;
        ...
        return 'whatever';
    });

This will add a method that will be run next time you call
C<$obj-E<gt>new_method>.

Arguments will not be used to replace the method on the object like they would
a in a get/set accessor.

Some people have expressed displeasure with this API. C<qmeth {...}> seems too
magical. The alternative is to use the control object.

    my ( $obj, $control ) = qobj(...);
    $control->set_methods( foo => sub { ... });

=head2 CLEARING METHODS/ATTRIBUTES

We have so far seen many ways to add methods, attributes and accessors to a
quick object. But you can also clear them! This is particularly useful in
strict objects where they will not autovivify back into existance.

One again there are 2 ways to clear an attribute or method. The original way
using the C<qclear> method, and the new way using the control object.

    # Remove the foo() attribute and any associated value/method
    $obj->foo( qclear() );

    # Remove a whole list of attributes
    $control->clear( qw/foo bar baz/ );

=head2 CONTROL OBJECT

The control object provides 2 additional methods.

=over 4

=item $control->strict( BOOL )

Lets you toggle strict mode on and off for your object.

=item $control->metrics

Returns a hashref with all current attributes/methods as keys, the values
associated with them are the counts of how many times that attribute has been
called. Clearing an attribute will reset its metrics.

=back

=head1 MOCKING CLASSES

Sometimes a quick object is not sufficient.

=over 4

=item The object you need to mock is instantiated inside the function you're testing

=item You want to preserve the original class, but you need to override a subset of methods

=item You want to replace the original class and prevent it from loading

=item You want to implement a temporary but re-usable class specification

=back

=head2 TAKING OVER A CLASS

The class is loaded, you want to change parts of it

=over 4

=item Take control of the class

    require Some::Package;
    my $control = qtakeover( 'Some::Package' );

=item Have your way with it

    $control->override(
        foo => sub { ... }
        bar => sub { ... }
    );

=item Restore the original method

    $control->restore( 'foo' );

=item The original class is completely restored when the control object is destroyed.

    $control = undef;

=back

=head2 USURPING A CLASS

The class is not loaded, you want to keep it that way, and put something in it's place.

=over 4

=item Create the package, %INC is updated for you to prevent the real one from loading.

    my $control = qimplement Some::Package => ( ... );

=back

=head3 arguments

=over 4

=item auto-create new()

    -with_new => 1,

=item subclassing

    -subclass => $class || [ @CLASSES ],

=item quickly generate attributes (read/write)

    -attributes => [qw/ foo bar baz /]

=item simple return value methods

    method => 'value'

=item custom methods

    do_it => sub { ... }

=back

The control object returned is identical to that from C<qtakeover()>.

=head2 ANONYMOUS CLASSES

An anonymous class is the same as userping a class, except instead of using a
real package a temporary one is created.

    my $control = qclass( ... )

Takes all the same arguments as qimplement.

=cut
